Newsletters: add 253 (2023-05-31) (#1130)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _includes/specials/policy/en/03-bidding-for-block-space.md

miners optimize their transaction selection to maximize collected fees.
It follows that only those transactions get confirmed that reside in the
top of the mempool when a block is found. In this post, we will discuss
practical strategies to get the most for our fees. Let’s assume we have
a decent source of feerate estimates—we will talk more about feerate
estimation in next week’s article.

While constructing transactions, some parts of the transaction are more
flexible than others. Every transaction requires the header fields, the
recipient outputs are determined by the payments being made, and most
transactions require a change output. Both sender and receiver should
prefer blockspace-efficient output types to reduce the future cost of
spending their transaction outputs, but it’s during the [input
selection][topic coin selection] that there is the most room to change
the final composition and weight of the transaction. As transactions
compete by feerate [fee/weight], a lighter transaction requires a lower
fee to reach the same feerate.

Some wallets, such as the Bitcoin Core wallet, try to combine inputs
such that they avoid needing a change output altogether. Avoiding change

> saves the weight of an output now, but also saves the future cost of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
saves the weight of an output now, and saves the future cost of
```

<!--
  300 to 1000 words
  put title in main newsletter
  put links in this file
  for any subheads use h3 (i.e., ###)
  illustrations welcome (max width 800px)
  if uncertain about anything, just do what seems best and harding will edit
-->

Last week we mentioned that transactions pay fees for the used
blockspace rather than the transferred amount, and established that
miners optimize their transaction selection to maximize collected fees.

> It follows that only those transactions get confirmed that reside in the

Reviewer 2: maybe

It follows that only transactions that reside in the top of the mempool get confirmed when a block is found.

top of the mempool when a block is found. In this post, we will discuss
practical strategies to get the most for our fees. Let’s assume we have
a decent source of feerate estimates—we will talk more about feerate
estimation in next week’s article.

While constructing transactions, some parts of the transaction are more
flexible than others. Every transaction requires the header fields, the

> recipient outputs are determined by the payments being made, and most

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
recipient outputs determined by the payments being made, and most
```

Reviewer: I agree with @Xekyo

transactions require a change output. Both sender and receiver should
prefer blockspace-efficient output types to reduce the future cost of
spending their transaction outputs, but it’s during the [input
selection][topic coin selection] that there is the most room to change
the final composition and weight of the transaction. As transactions
compete by feerate [fee/weight], a lighter transaction requires a lower
fee to reach the same feerate.

Some wallets, such as the Bitcoin Core wallet, try to combine inputs
such that they avoid needing a change output altogether. Avoiding change
saves the weight of an output now, but also saves the future cost of
spending the change output later. Unfortunately, such input combinations

> will only seldom be available unless the wallet sports a large UTXO pool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will seldom be available unless the wallet sports a large UTXO pool
```

with a broad variety of amounts.

Modern output types are more blockspace-efficient than older output
types. E.g. spending a P2TR input incurs less than 2/5ths of a P2PKH
input’s weight. (Try it with our [transaction size

> calculator][]!) For multisig wallets, the recently

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calculator][]) For multisig wallets, the recently
```

Reviewer 3: That’s a whole sentence in the parentheses, so wouldn’t it need punctuation?

> finalized [MuSig2][topic musig] schema and FROST protocol chalk out huge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
finalized [MuSig2][topic musig] scheme and FROST protocol provide huge
```

cost savings by permitting multisig functionality to be encoded in what
looks like a single-sig input. Especially in times when blockspace
demand goes through the roof, a wallet using modern output types by
itself translates to big cost savings.

{:.center} ![Overview of input and output
weights](/img/posts/specials/input-output-weights.png)

Smart wallets change their selection strategy on the basis of the
feerate: at high feerates they use few inputs and modern input types to
achieve the lowest possible weight for the input set. Always selecting
the lightest input set would locally minimize the cost of the current
transaction, but also grind a wallet’s UTXO pool into small fragments.
This could set the user up for transactions with huge input sets at high
feerates later. Therefore, it is prescient for wallets to also select
more and heavier inputs at low feerates to opportunistically consolidate
funds into fewer modern outputs in anticipation of later blockspace
demand spikes.

> High-volume wallets often batch multiple payments into a single

Reviewer 2: Could link to https://bitcoinops.org/en/payment-batching/

transaction to reduce the transaction weight per payment. Instead of
incurring the overhead of the header bytes and the change output for

> each payment, they only incur the overhead cost once shared across all

Reviewer 2: maybe

```suggestion
each payment, they only incur the overhead cost once, shared across all
```
